Added a new directory for statistics programs in matlab. Added all of
your favorite statistical tests in non-parametric, permutation test
style. This proceduce removes the need for assumptions of normality,
equal variance, and balnced designes; however, there is still the
assumption of independent experimental units. It is faily intuitive,
and allows for easy construction of different null hypothesis. Only a
subset of possible tests (those usually performed by parametric
methods) are performed in these scripts. Reference sets for computing
P-values are obtained through monte-carlo sampling of possible
permutations. This is over kill for small sample sizes but is still a
valid procedure.
The user can supply a their own test statistic(s) which does not
invalidate any of these designs, however the null hypothesis will be
different with different test statitistics and hence the
interpretation. These test statistics have been chosen because they
are equivalant statistics (meaning they will give the same p-value) to
parametric test statistics like 't' and 'F'. 

All concepts in these scripts are from:
Edington, ES. (1995). Randomization tests. New York, NY:Marcel Dekker inc.

Content: permtest.m : permutation equivalant to a t-test - tested
against matlab's ttest2 function. Supports tests of direction.

anova1perm.m permutation equivalant to a single factor (1-way) ANOVA -
tested against matlab anova1.m

anova1repperm.m permutation equivalant to a repeated measures ANOVA -
verified with a function form the matlab central file exchange

anova2perm.m permutation equivalant to a two factor (2-way) ANOVA,
with a possible repeated measure in one factor. This scripts returns
main effects for each factor. As of the time of this text book no
satisfactory method has been determined for computing an interaction,
except in the case of a repeated measure, then a P-value for the
interaction is returned. The two way anova repeated anova was tested
with a function from the matlab central file exchange, but the unequal
sizes want to able to be tested. The main effects for the two factor
anova were tested against matlab anova2 function, however the unequal
group sizes was not able to be tested.


